You mentioned Kristallnacht. Yes. So you have some memories of that?
Oh yes. Can you tell me more?
Well, I wasn't out and about when it happened, but all the sort of Jewish
businesses in Cologne were smashed up, windows broken, more or less closed down.
My synagogue, well all the synagogues were trashed, burned and smashed up. The
school I went to, which was sort of attached to one of the synagogues, was
also completely destroyed. So school did not continue after the 9th, 10th of
November, but there were some facilities organized in a big building which
had rooms in it, which was a Jewish community center, I suppose. So that's
where the schooling continued. My headmaster immediately got very busy
trying to get the whole of the school transferred to Britain. And my class,
which was the sort of third class of high school, in other words, 12, 13 year
olds, was the first class to come over to England.